# MSCI 541 Homework 5 - Search Engine Interaction & BM25 Retrieval

### Youssef Abadeer (yabadeer - 20879646)

### Description of the Files
1. `indexEngine.py`: Python script that creates the inverted index, lexicon, among many other data structures, and processes all the documents for storage in the appropriate format.
2. `BM25.py`: Python script that implements BM25 retrieval. I also implemented my user interaction in this file as well.
3. `lexicon.txt`, `inverted_index.txt`, `mapping.txt`, `doc-lengths.txt`: Index files generated by `indexEngine.py`. These files are loaded in and used by `BM25.py` to perform retrieval.
4. The qrels file is also included in the root repository for reference.
5. I've included all .py files from HW1 all the way until now since I used / modified some of them for parts of this assignment.

### How to Run
1. You will first need to have an index. Run the `indexEngine.py` program, either on the LATimes data, or a small sample collection to build the index.
2. To run the `BM25.py` script and perform retrieval for all queries, use the following command format in the terminal:
`python3 BM25.py <indexPath>`
For example:
`python3 BM25.py latimes-index`

- `<indexPath>`: Path to the directory containing the index files (`lexicon.txt`, `inverted_index.txt`, `mapping.txt`, `doc-lengths.txt`).

This will prompt the user to get started by typing a query for the engine.

### Results
After the query is submitted. The engine will retrieve the top 10 documents found in the collection.
The results will have a Query-Biased summary as well as the headline and rank of the document.
The user will then have a choice of viewing the document of a specific rank, entering a new query, or exiting the program. These were all specifications followed as part of the project requirements.

### Building the Code
Before running the script, make sure Python 3.x is installed on your machine. This program is developed using Python 3 and relies on its features.

### Building and Running the Programs

Prerequisites:

Verify the installation of Python 3.x by typing the following command into the terminal:
`python3 --version`

If Python is not installed, please visit python.org for download and installation instructions.
Clone the repository containing the BM25 script and associated data files using the following command in your terminal to create a local copy:
`git clone https://github.com/UWaterloo-MSCI-541/msci-541-f23-hw5-yabadeer.git`

Then, navigate to the directory containing the `BM25.py` script and follow the example commands above to execute the retrieval process. As a reminder, you'll first need to run indexEngine.py to create the index, and then run BM25.py to perform the retrieval.

### Contact Info
For any questions or assistance, please contact me at yabadeer@uwaterloo.ca.
